README.md, before:

# <img src="public/images/Terraform-LogoMark_onDark.svg" width="30" align="left" style="margin-right: 12px;"/> Terraform MCP Server

The Terraform MCP Server is a [Model Context Protocol (MCP)](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction)
server that provides seamless integration with Terraform Registry APIs, enabling advanced
automation and interaction capabilities for Infrastructure as Code (IaC) development.

## Features

- **Dual Transport Support**: Both Stdio and StreamableHTTP transports
- **Terraform Provider Discovery**: Query and explore Terraform providers and their documentation
- **Module Search & Analysis**: Search and retrieve detailed information about Terraform modules
- **Registry Integration**: Direct integration with Terraform Registry APIs
- **Container Ready**: Docker support for easy deployment

> **Caution:** The outputs and recommendations provided by the MCP server are generated dynamically and may vary based on the query, model, and the connected MCP server. Users should **thoroughly review all outputs/recommendations** to ensure they align with their organization's **security best practices**, **cost-efficiency goals**, and **compliance requirements** before implementation.

> **Security Note:** When using the StreamableHTTP transport in production, always configure the `MCP_ALLOWED_ORIGINS` environment variable to restrict access to trusted origins only. This helps prevent DNS rebinding attacks and other cross-origin vulnerabilities.

## Prerequisites

1. To run the server in a container, you will need to have [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) installed.
2. Once Docker is installed, you will need to ensure Docker is running.

## Transport Support

The Terraform MCP Server supports multiple transport protocols:

### 1. Stdio Transport (Default)
Standard input/output communication using JSON-RPC messages. Ideal for local development and direct integration with MCP clients.

### 2. StreamableHTTP Transport
Modern HTTP-based transport supporting both direct HTTP requests and Server-Sent Events (SSE) streams. This is the recommended transport for remote/distributed setups.

**Features:**
- **Endpoint**: `http://{hostname}:8080/mcp`
- **Health Check**: `http://{hostname}:8080/health`
- **Environment Configuration**: Set `TRANSPORT_MODE=http` or `TRANSPORT_PORT=8080` to enable

**Environment Variables:**

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `TRANSPORT_MODE` | Set to `streamable-http` to enable HTTP transport (legacy `http` value still supported) | `stdio` |
| `TRANSPORT_HOST` | Host to bind the HTTP server | `127.0.0.1` |
| `TRANSPORT_PORT` | HTTP server port | `8080` |
| `MCP_ENDPOINT` | HTTP server endpoint path | `/mcp` |
| `MCP_SESSION_MODE` | Session mode: `stateful` or `stateless` | `stateful` |
| `MCP_ALLOWED_ORIGINS` | Comma-separated list of allowed origins for CORS | `""` (empty) |
| `MCP_CORS_MODE` | CORS mode: `strict`, `development`, or `disabled` | `strict` |
| `MCP_TLS_CERT_FILE` | Path to TLS cert file, required for non-localhost deployment (e.g. `/path/to/cert.pem`) | `""` (empty) |
| `MCP_TLS_KEY_FILE` |  Path to TLS key file, required for non-localhost deployment (e.g. `/path/to/key.pem`)| `""` (empty) |
| `MCP_RATE_LIMIT_GLOBAL` | Global rate limit (format: `rps:burst`) | `10:20` |
| `MCP_RATE_LIMIT_SESSION` | Per-session rate limit (format: `rps:burst`) | `5:10` |
| `ENABLE_TF_OPERATIONS` | Enable tools that require explicit approval | `false` |

## Command Line Options

```bash
# Stdio mode
terraform-mcp-server stdio [--log-file /path/to/log]

# StreamableHTTP mode
terraform-mcp-server streamable-http [--transport-port 8080] [--transport-host 127.0.0.1] [--mcp-endpoint /mcp] [--log-file /path/to/log]
```

## Session Modes

The Terraform MCP Server supports two session modes when using the StreamableHTTP transport:

- **Stateful Mode (Default)**: Maintains session state between requests, enabling context-aware operations.
- **Stateless Mode**: Each request is processed independently without maintaining session state, which can be useful for high-availability deployments or when using load balancers.

To enable stateless mode, set the environment variable:
```bash
export MCP_SESSION_MODE=stateless
```

## Installation

### Usage with VS Code

Add the following JSON block to your User Settings (JSON) file in VS Code. You can do this by pressing `Ctrl + Shift + P` and typing `Preferences: Open User Settings (JSON)`. 

More about using MCP server tools in VS Code's [agent mode documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/chat/mcp-servers).

```json
{
  "mcp": {
    "servers": {
      "terraform": {
        "command": "docker",
        "args": [
          "run",
          "-i",
          "--rm",
          "hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server"
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Optionally, you can add a similar example (i.e. without the mcp key) to a file called `.vscode/mcp.json` in your workspace. This will allow you to share the configuration with others.

```json
{
  "servers": {
    "terraform": {
      "command": "docker",
      "args": [
        "run",
        "-i",
        "--rm",
        "hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```


[<img alt="Install in VS Code (docker)" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/VS_Code-VS_Code?style=flat-square&label=Install%20Terraform%20MCP&color=0098FF">](https://vscode.dev/redirect?url=vscode%3Amcp%2Finstall%3F%7B%22name%22%3A%22terraform%22%2C%22command%22%3A%22docker%22%2C%22args%22%3A%5B%22run%22%2C%22-i%22%2C%22--rm%22%2C%22hashicorp%2Fterraform-mcp-server%22%5D%7D)
[<img alt="Install in VS Code Insiders (docker)" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/VS_Code_Insiders-VS_Code_Insiders?style=flat-square&label=Install%20Terraform%20MCP&color=24bfa5">](https://insiders.vscode.dev/redirect?url=vscode-insiders%3Amcp%2Finstall%3F%7B%22name%22%3A%22terraform%22%2C%22command%22%3A%22docker%22%2C%22args%22%3A%5B%22run%22%2C%22-i%22%2C%22--rm%22%2C%22hashicorp%2Fterraform-mcp-server%22%5D%7D)

### Usage with Cursor

Add this to your Cursor config (`~/.cursor/mcp.json`) or via Settings → Cursor Settings → MCP:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "terraform": {
      "command": "docker",
      "args": [
        "run",
        "-i",
        "--rm",
        "hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```


<a href="cursor://anysphere.cursor-deeplink/mcp/install?name=terraform&config=eyJjb21tYW5kIjoiZG9ja2VyIiwiYXJncyI6WyJydW4iLCItaSIsIi0tcm0iLCJoYXNoaWNvcnAvdGVycmFmb3JtLW1jcC1zZXJ2ZXIiXX0%3D">
  <img alt="Add terraform MCP server to Cursor" src="https://cursor.com/deeplink/mcp-install-dark.png" height="48" />
</a>

[Install Terraform MCP server in Cursor](cursor://anysphere.cursor-deeplink/mcp/install?name=terraform&config=eyJjb21tYW5kIjoiZG9ja2VyIiwiYXJncyI6WyJydW4iLCItaSIsIi0tcm0iLCJoYXNoaWNvcnAvdGVycmFmb3JtLW1jcC1zZXJ2ZXIiXX0%3D)

### Usage with Claude Desktop / Amazon Q Developer / Amazon Q CLI

More about using MCP server tools in Claude Desktop [user documentation](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/quickstart/user).
Read more about using MCP server in Amazon Q from the [documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonq/latest/qdeveloper-ug/qdev-mcp.html).

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "terraform": {
      "command": "docker",
      "args": [
        "run",
        "-i",
        "--rm",
        "hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

### Usage with Claude Code

More about using and adding MCP server tools in Claude Code [user documentation](https://docs.claude.com/en/docs/claude-code/mcp)

#### Local (stdio) Transport

```sh
claude mcp add terraform -s user -t stdio -- docker run -i --rm hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server
```

#### Remote (streamable-http) Transport

```sh
# Run server (example)
docker run -p 8080:8080 --rm -e TRANSPORT_MODE=streamable-http -e TRANSPORT_HOST=0.0.0.0 hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server

# Add to Claude Code
claude mcp add --transport http terraform http://localhost:8080/mcp
```

## Tool Configuration

### Available Toolsets

The following sets of tools are available for the [public Terraform registry](https://registry.terraform.io):

| Toolset     | Tool                         | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|-------------|------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `providers` | `search_providers`           | Queries the Terraform Registry to find and list available documentation for a specific provider using the specified `service_slug`. Returns a list of provider document IDs with their titles and categories for resources, data sources, functions, or guides. |
| `providers` | `get_provider_details`       | Fetches the complete documentation content for a specific provider resource, data source, or function using a document ID obtained from the `search_providers` tool. Returns the raw documentation in markdown format.                                          |
| `providers` | `get_latest_provider_version`| Fetches the complete documentation content for a specific provider resource, data source, or function using a document ID obtained from the `search_providers` tool. Returns the raw documentation in markdown format.                                          |
| `modules`   | `search_modules`             | Searches the Terraform Registry for modules based on specified `module_query` with pagination. Returns a list of module IDs with their names, descriptions, download counts, verification status, and publish dates                                             |
| `modules`   | `get_module_details`         | Retrieves detailed documentation for a module using a module ID obtained from the `search_modules` tool including inputs, outputs, configuration, submodules, and examples.                                                                                     |
| `modules`   | `get_latest_module_version`  | Retrieves detailed documentation for a module using a module ID obtained from the `search_modules` tool including inputs, outputs, configuration, submodules, and examples.                                                                                     |
| `policies`  | `search_policies`            | Queries the Terraform Registry to find and list the appropriate Sentinel Policy based on the provided query `policy_query`. Returns a list of matching policies with terraform_policy_id(s) with their name, title and download counts.                         |
| `policies`  | `get_policy_details`         | Retrieves detailed documentation for a policy set using a terraform_policy_id obtained from the `search_policies` tool including policy readme and implementation details.                                                                                      |

The following sets of tools are available for HCP Terraform or Terraform Enterprise:

| Toolset     | Tool                        | Description                                                             |
|-------------|-----------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `orgs`      | `list_organizations`        | Lists all Terraform organizations accessible to the authenticated user. |
| `projects`  | `list_projects`             | Lists all projects within a specified Terraform organization.           |

## Resource Configuration

### Available resources

| Resource URI | Description |
|--------------|-------------|
| `/terraform/style-guide` | Terraform Style Guide - Provides access to the official Terraform style guide documentation in markdown format |
| `/terraform/module-development` | Terraform Module Development Guide - Comprehensive guide covering module composition, structure, providers, publishing, and refactoring best practices |

### Available Resource Templates

| Resouce Template URI | Description |
|--------------|-------------|
| `/terraform/providers/{namespace}/name/{name}/version/{version}` | Provider Resource Template - Dynamically retrieves detailed documentation and overview for any Terraform provider by namespace, name, and version |


### Install from source

Use the latest release version:

```console
go install github.com/hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server/cmd/terraform-mcp-server@latest
```

Use the main branch:

```console
go install github.com/hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server/cmd/terraform-mcp-server@main
```

```json
{
  "mcp": {
    "servers": {
      "terraform": {
        "command": "/path/to/terraform-mcp-server",
        "args": ["stdio"]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Building the Docker Image locally

Before using the server, you need to build the Docker image locally:

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server.git
cd terraform-mcp-server
```

2. Build the Docker image:
```bash
make docker-build
```

3. This will create a local Docker image that you can use in the following configuration.

```bash
# Run in stdio mode
docker run -i --rm terraform-mcp-server:dev

# Run in streamable-http mode
docker run -p 8080:8080 --rm -e TRANSPORT_MODE=streamable-http -e TRANSPORT_HOST=0.0.0.0 terraform-mcp-server:dev
```

> **Note:** When running in Docker, you should set `TRANSPORT_HOST=0.0.0.0` to allow connections from outside the container.

4. (Optional) Test connection in http mode
  
```bash
# Test the connection
curl http://localhost:8080/health
```

5. You can use it on your AI assistant as follow:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "terraform": {
      "command": "docker",
      "args": [
        "run",
        "-i",
        "--rm",
        "terraform-mcp-server:dev"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

## Development

### Prerequisites
- Go (check [go.mod](./go.mod) file for specific version)
- Docker (optional, for container builds)

### Available Make Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `make build` | Build the binary |
| `make test` | Run all tests |
| `make test-e2e` | Run end-to-end tests |
| `make docker-build` | Build Docker image |
| `make run-http` | Run HTTP server locally |
| `make docker-run-http` | Run HTTP server in Docker |
| `make test-http` | Test HTTP health endpoint |
| `make clean` | Remove build artifacts |
| `make help` | Show all available commands |

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Run tests
5. Submit a pull request

## License

This project is licensed under the terms of the MPL-2.0 open source license. Please refer to [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file for the full terms.

## Security

For security issues, please contact security@hashicorp.com or follow our [security policy](https://www.hashicorp.com/en/trust/security/vulnerability-management).

## Support

For bug reports and feature requests, please open an issue on GitHub.

For general questions and discussions, open a GitHub Discussion.

Commit message:

Adding instructions for MCP servers and examples for AI clients (#156)
* adding instructions

* renaming files and changelog

* minor fix

* Update instructions/example-copilot-instructions.md

Co-authored-by: Srinivasa Kartheek <143136667+kartheek-hc@users.noreply.github.com>

* implementing feedback

* minor fix

---------

Co-authored-by: Srinivasa Kartheek <143136667+kartheek-hc@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

# <img src="public/images/Terraform-LogoMark_onDark.svg" width="30" align="left" style="margin-right: 12px;"/> Terraform MCP Server

The Terraform MCP Server is a [Model Context Protocol (MCP)](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction)
server that provides seamless integration with Terraform Registry APIs, enabling advanced
automation and interaction capabilities for Infrastructure as Code (IaC) development.

## Features

- **Dual Transport Support**: Both Stdio and StreamableHTTP transports
- **Terraform Provider Discovery**: Query and explore Terraform providers and their documentation
- **Module Search & Analysis**: Search and retrieve detailed information about Terraform modules
- **Registry Integration**: Direct integration with Terraform Registry APIs
- **Container Ready**: Docker support for easy deployment

> **Caution:** The outputs and recommendations provided by the MCP server are generated dynamically and may vary based on the query, model, and the connected MCP server. Users should **thoroughly review all outputs/recommendations** to ensure they align with their organization's **security best practices**, **cost-efficiency goals**, and **compliance requirements** before implementation.

> **Security Note:** When using the StreamableHTTP transport in production, always configure the `MCP_ALLOWED_ORIGINS` environment variable to restrict access to trusted origins only. This helps prevent DNS rebinding attacks and other cross-origin vulnerabilities.

## Prerequisites

1. To run the server in a container, you will need to have [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) installed.
2. Once Docker is installed, you will need to ensure Docker is running.

## Transport Support

The Terraform MCP Server supports multiple transport protocols:

### 1. Stdio Transport (Default)
Standard input/output communication using JSON-RPC messages. Ideal for local development and direct integration with MCP clients.

### 2. StreamableHTTP Transport
Modern HTTP-based transport supporting both direct HTTP requests and Server-Sent Events (SSE) streams. This is the recommended transport for remote/distributed setups.

**Features:**
- **Endpoint**: `http://{hostname}:8080/mcp`
- **Health Check**: `http://{hostname}:8080/health`
- **Environment Configuration**: Set `TRANSPORT_MODE=http` or `TRANSPORT_PORT=8080` to enable

**Environment Variables:**

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `TRANSPORT_MODE` | Set to `streamable-http` to enable HTTP transport (legacy `http` value still supported) | `stdio` |
| `TRANSPORT_HOST` | Host to bind the HTTP server | `127.0.0.1` |
| `TRANSPORT_PORT` | HTTP server port | `8080` |
| `MCP_ENDPOINT` | HTTP server endpoint path | `/mcp` |
| `MCP_SESSION_MODE` | Session mode: `stateful` or `stateless` | `stateful` |
| `MCP_ALLOWED_ORIGINS` | Comma-separated list of allowed origins for CORS | `""` (empty) |
| `MCP_CORS_MODE` | CORS mode: `strict`, `development`, or `disabled` | `strict` |
| `MCP_TLS_CERT_FILE` | Path to TLS cert file, required for non-localhost deployment (e.g. `/path/to/cert.pem`) | `""` (empty) |
| `MCP_TLS_KEY_FILE` |  Path to TLS key file, required for non-localhost deployment (e.g. `/path/to/key.pem`)| `""` (empty) |
| `MCP_RATE_LIMIT_GLOBAL` | Global rate limit (format: `rps:burst`) | `10:20` |
| `MCP_RATE_LIMIT_SESSION` | Per-session rate limit (format: `rps:burst`) | `5:10` |
| `ENABLE_TF_OPERATIONS` | Enable tools that require explicit approval | `false` |

## Command Line Options

```bash
# Stdio mode
terraform-mcp-server stdio [--log-file /path/to/log]

# StreamableHTTP mode
terraform-mcp-server streamable-http [--transport-port 8080] [--transport-host 127.0.0.1] [--mcp-endpoint /mcp] [--log-file /path/to/log]
```

## Session Modes

The Terraform MCP Server supports two session modes when using the StreamableHTTP transport:

- **Stateful Mode (Default)**: Maintains session state between requests, enabling context-aware operations.

- **Stateless Mode**: Each request is processed independently without maintaining session state, which can be useful for high-availability deployments or when using load balancers.

To enable stateless mode, set the environment variable:

```bash
export MCP_SESSION_MODE=stateless
```

## Instructions

Default instructions for the MCP server is located in `cmd/terraform-mcp-server/instructions.md`, if those do not seem appropriate for your organization's Terraform practices or if the MCP server is producing inccurate responses, please replace them with your own instructions and rebuild the container or binary. An example of such instruction is located in `instructions/example-mcp-instructions.md`

`AGENTS.md` essentially behaves as READMEs for coding agents: a dedicated, predictable place to provide the context and instructions to help AI coding agents work on your project. One `AGENTS.md` file works with different coding agents. An example of such instruction is located in `instructions/example-AGENTS.md`, in order to use it commit a file name `AGENTS.md` to the directory where your Terraform configurations reside.

## Installation

### Usage with VS Code

Add the following JSON block to your User Settings (JSON) file in VS Code. You can do this by pressing `Ctrl + Shift + P` and typing `Preferences: Open User Settings (JSON)`. 

More about using MCP server tools in VS Code's [agent mode documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/chat/mcp-servers).

```json
{
  "mcp": {
    "servers": {
      "terraform": {
        "command": "docker",
        "args": [
          "run",
          "-i",
          "--rm",
          "hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server"
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Optionally, you can add a similar example (i.e. without the mcp key) to a file called `.vscode/mcp.json` in your workspace. This will allow you to share the configuration with others.

```json
{
  "servers": {
    "terraform": {
      "command": "docker",
      "args": [
        "run",
        "-i",
        "--rm",
        "hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```


[<img alt="Install in VS Code (docker)" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/VS_Code-VS_Code?style=flat-square&label=Install%20Terraform%20MCP&color=0098FF">](https://vscode.dev/redirect?url=vscode%3Amcp%2Finstall%3F%7B%22name%22%3A%22terraform%22%2C%22command%22%3A%22docker%22%2C%22args%22%3A%5B%22run%22%2C%22-i%22%2C%22--rm%22%2C%22hashicorp%2Fterraform-mcp-server%22%5D%7D)
[<img alt="Install in VS Code Insiders (docker)" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/VS_Code_Insiders-VS_Code_Insiders?style=flat-square&label=Install%20Terraform%20MCP&color=24bfa5">](https://insiders.vscode.dev/redirect?url=vscode-insiders%3Amcp%2Finstall%3F%7B%22name%22%3A%22terraform%22%2C%22command%22%3A%22docker%22%2C%22args%22%3A%5B%22run%22%2C%22-i%22%2C%22--rm%22%2C%22hashicorp%2Fterraform-mcp-server%22%5D%7D)

### Usage with Cursor

Add this to your Cursor config (`~/.cursor/mcp.json`) or via Settings → Cursor Settings → MCP:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "terraform": {
      "command": "docker",
      "args": [
        "run",
        "-i",
        "--rm",
        "hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```


<a href="cursor://anysphere.cursor-deeplink/mcp/install?name=terraform&config=eyJjb21tYW5kIjoiZG9ja2VyIiwiYXJncyI6WyJydW4iLCItaSIsIi0tcm0iLCJoYXNoaWNvcnAvdGVycmFmb3JtLW1jcC1zZXJ2ZXIiXX0%3D">
  <img alt="Add terraform MCP server to Cursor" src="https://cursor.com/deeplink/mcp-install-dark.png" height="48" />
</a>

[Install Terraform MCP server in Cursor](cursor://anysphere.cursor-deeplink/mcp/install?name=terraform&config=eyJjb21tYW5kIjoiZG9ja2VyIiwiYXJncyI6WyJydW4iLCItaSIsIi0tcm0iLCJoYXNoaWNvcnAvdGVycmFmb3JtLW1jcC1zZXJ2ZXIiXX0%3D)

### Usage with Claude Desktop / Amazon Q Developer / Amazon Q CLI

More about using MCP server tools in Claude Desktop [user documentation](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/quickstart/user).
Read more about using MCP server in Amazon Q from the [documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonq/latest/qdeveloper-ug/qdev-mcp.html).

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "terraform": {
      "command": "docker",
      "args": [
        "run",
        "-i",
        "--rm",
        "hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

### Usage with Claude Code

More about using and adding MCP server tools in Claude Code [user documentation](https://docs.claude.com/en/docs/claude-code/mcp)

#### Local (stdio) Transport

```sh
claude mcp add terraform -s user -t stdio -- docker run -i --rm hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server
```

#### Remote (streamable-http) Transport

```sh
# Run server (example)
docker run -p 8080:8080 --rm -e TRANSPORT_MODE=streamable-http -e TRANSPORT_HOST=0.0.0.0 hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server

# Add to Claude Code
claude mcp add --transport http terraform http://localhost:8080/mcp
```

## Tool Configuration

### Available Toolsets

The following sets of tools are available for the [public Terraform registry](https://registry.terraform.io):

| Toolset     | Tool                         | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
|-------------|------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `providers` | `search_providers`           | Queries the Terraform Registry to find and list available documentation for a specific provider using the specified `service_slug`. Returns a list of provider document IDs with their titles and categories for resources, data sources, functions, or guides. |
| `providers` | `get_provider_details`       | Fetches the complete documentation content for a specific provider resource, data source, or function using a document ID obtained from the `search_providers` tool. Returns the raw documentation in markdown format.                                          |
| `providers` | `get_latest_provider_version`| Fetches the complete documentation content for a specific provider resource, data source, or function using a document ID obtained from the `search_providers` tool. Returns the raw documentation in markdown format.                                          |
| `modules`   | `search_modules`             | Searches the Terraform Registry for modules based on specified `module_query` with pagination. Returns a list of module IDs with their names, descriptions, download counts, verification status, and publish dates                                             |
| `modules`   | `get_module_details`         | Retrieves detailed documentation for a module using a module ID obtained from the `search_modules` tool including inputs, outputs, configuration, submodules, and examples.                                                                                     |
| `modules`   | `get_latest_module_version`  | Retrieves detailed documentation for a module using a module ID obtained from the `search_modules` tool including inputs, outputs, configuration, submodules, and examples.                                                                                     |
| `policies`  | `search_policies`            | Queries the Terraform Registry to find and list the appropriate Sentinel Policy based on the provided query `policy_query`. Returns a list of matching policies with terraform_policy_id(s) with their name, title and download counts.                         |
| `policies`  | `get_policy_details`         | Retrieves detailed documentation for a policy set using a terraform_policy_id obtained from the `search_policies` tool including policy readme and implementation details.                                                                                      |

The following sets of tools are available for HCP Terraform or Terraform Enterprise:

| Toolset     | Tool                        | Description                                                             |
|-------------|-----------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `orgs`      | `list_organizations`        | Lists all Terraform organizations accessible to the authenticated user. |
| `projects`  | `list_projects`             | Lists all projects within a specified Terraform organization.           |

## Resource Configuration

### Available resources

| Resource URI | Description |
|--------------|-------------|
| `/terraform/style-guide` | Terraform Style Guide - Provides access to the official Terraform style guide documentation in markdown format |
| `/terraform/module-development` | Terraform Module Development Guide - Comprehensive guide covering module composition, structure, providers, publishing, and refactoring best practices |

### Available Resource Templates

| Resouce Template URI | Description |
|--------------|-------------|
| `/terraform/providers/{namespace}/name/{name}/version/{version}` | Provider Resource Template - Dynamically retrieves detailed documentation and overview for any Terraform provider by namespace, name, and version |


### Install from source

Use the latest release version:

```console
go install github.com/hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server/cmd/terraform-mcp-server@latest
```

Use the main branch:

```console
go install github.com/hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server/cmd/terraform-mcp-server@main
```

```json
{
  "mcp": {
    "servers": {
      "terraform": {
        "command": "/path/to/terraform-mcp-server",
        "args": ["stdio"]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Building the Docker Image locally

Before using the server, you need to build the Docker image locally:

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-mcp-server.git
cd terraform-mcp-server
```

2. Build the Docker image:
```bash
make docker-build
```

3. This will create a local Docker image that you can use in the following configuration.

```bash
# Run in stdio mode
docker run -i --rm terraform-mcp-server:dev

# Run in streamable-http mode
docker run -p 8080:8080 --rm -e TRANSPORT_MODE=streamable-http -e TRANSPORT_HOST=0.0.0.0 terraform-mcp-server:dev
```

> **Note:** When running in Docker, you should set `TRANSPORT_HOST=0.0.0.0` to allow connections from outside the container.

4. (Optional) Test connection in http mode
  
```bash
# Test the connection
curl http://localhost:8080/health
```

5. You can use it on your AI assistant as follow:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "terraform": {
      "command": "docker",
      "args": [
        "run",
        "-i",
        "--rm",
        "terraform-mcp-server:dev"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

## Development

### Prerequisites
- Go (check [go.mod](./go.mod) file for specific version)
- Docker (optional, for container builds)

### Available Make Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `make build` | Build the binary |
| `make test` | Run all tests |
| `make test-e2e` | Run end-to-end tests |
| `make docker-build` | Build Docker image |
| `make run-http` | Run HTTP server locally |
| `make docker-run-http` | Run HTTP server in Docker |
| `make test-http` | Test HTTP health endpoint |
| `make clean` | Remove build artifacts |
| `make help` | Show all available commands |

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Run tests
5. Submit a pull request

## License

This project is licensed under the terms of the MPL-2.0 open source license. Please refer to [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file for the full terms.

## Security

For security issues, please contact security@hashicorp.com or follow our [security policy](https://www.hashicorp.com/en/trust/security/vulnerability-management).

## Support

For bug reports and feature requests, please open an issue on GitHub.

For general questions and discussions, open a GitHub Discussion.
